Little bit about how to prepare that
video to get the most out of it.
First of all keep it short no more than
20 minutes ideally nearer 10, right,
it's got to be really short and snappy.
Secondly, cover the same basic
information as your main presentation,
I'll get on to that in just a minute.
And then at the end, we're gonna ask some
really structured questions in the video,
right, to replace that
what do you think of it?
And we're gonna get on to that
in just a second, all right?
So that video really, really useful tool,
highly recommend it, definitely,
definitely do that.
You can just use something
like Loom to record it,
which makes it really easy to do.
So how do we know the presentation itself?
How do we get that moment?
We've got to present this design.
This is a big thing to designers,
getting approval for a design.
So if you follow my advice about speaking
to those stakeholders individually,
and you've engaged stakeholders
through the process,
then really this is just a formality.
Suddenly that big scary presentation,
that most designers dread,
becomes nothing, really it becomes
trivial in comparison, right?
And it's almost a box ticking exercise.
Everybody will be on board, no problem.
So before showing the design,
cover the following.
The decisions, recap the decisions
that have been made already.
Cover things like your brand key words,
your value proposition,
your success criteria,
decisions that were made around content,
all of that stuff, start with that.
Next, talk about how you collaborated,
right?
Revisit any design assets that
you produced together with
your other stakeholders such
as your style tiles, or
any user attention point exercise, or
anything like that that you did, right?
And then finally, cover any testing
that you've covered, that you've done,
card sorting exercises, five second test,
first click tests, all of that.
That recap is vitally important, right,
and it's vitally important for
two reasons.
Number one,
it triggers the commitment bias, right?
So this is a psychological
thing that people have, right?
Which is if we have agreed to
something previously, if we said,
we think that's good,
we don't like to then change our minds.
We like to remain consistent with what
we've previously committed ourselves to.
So if we've said we agree to these brand
words, if we've said we agree to these
design principles,
if we said we agree to the style tiles,
to go back on that now, people will lose
faith, and they don't wanna do that.
So that's why you need the recap.
And then secondly,
the methodology talking through that
methodology provides reassurance.
It shows the process that has led to
the design you're about to present, right?
So now, when we come to presenting
the actual presentation itself.
First of all, we wanna reference
previous work that we've done, right?
Point out so you're showing,
you've put the design on screen now, okay.
For the first time they're seeing it.
The very first thing you do is
you run through how the design
reflects previous work that's been done.
So, you can see here how we've used
these colors from this style tile.
And we've used this typography
from this style tile.
And the layout represents what
we did in the wire frame.
And the brand keywords are shown
through these elements on the page, and
this is the content that we agreed.
And here it all is, and
it's all brought together.
Again, this triggers that commitment bias.
Secondly, we're gonna preempt those common
objections, just like I said earlier.
Don't wait for
stakeholders to express their objections.
Once they've objected out loud, they're
gonna unlikely to back down from that.
So instead we're gonna get ahead of those
and cover any objections in advance.
And then finally, we're gonna emphasize
how much we've tested this design,
and what it's gone through, right?
Easy, [LAUGH].
Honestly, I swear to you, you do it like
this, you will not get objections, right?
By this stage,
you will get no pushback over the design.
And I say this,
I've mentored agency, after agency,
and after agency, and
when I first tell people this,
they look at me with utter disbelief
like I've gone mad, right?
And they do it I said, just do it once,
just try it once in the method
that I've said, and
you will get design sign off first time.
And they try it, and they do.
It really does work, there is no reason
for you to get stuck in iteration help.
So how do we end our presentation, right?
There's two things I'm gonna suggest,
but the first one is going to
probably everything I say today is
gonna freak the most people out.
Are we ready to be freaked out?
That got everybody's attention right?
Downplay or remove design sign off, okay?
One of the things that we do is
we tell people, right, okay,
now it's time to sign off the design,
are you happy to sign it off?
Why do we do that?
If in print that makes total sense because
you then wanna send it to print, and
hanging stuff after the fact
is a major nightmare, right?
But in designing in digital, it's not, we
could change the colors later it wouldn't
be the end of the world it's
the linings of the CSS.
We could change the typography and
it wouldn't be disastrous, right?
There's a lot that can still be changed
in the design relatively lightweight,
we just need to know we're
in the right direction.
And yeah, it would be vaguely inconvenient
if the client started changing things.
But not as inconvenient is what
happens when we require sign off, and
we make a big deal out of it, right?
The bigger the deal that we make out
of it, the bigger this decision to
sign off becomes in the minds
of our stakeholders and clients.
If I say to you, I need you to
pick which coffee you want today,
what type of coffee would you like, right?
It's no big deal, you can always call
me when I get down to the Starbucks and
change your order if you want to.
It's super relaxed about it.
But if I turn around and say, I want you
to pick what coffee you're gonna drink for
the rest of your life, right,
then suddenly that becomes so
much more intimidating.
So downplay it, right?
You'll get sign off a lot easier.
Chances are they won't
ever change anything, and
if they do change things is gonna be
relatively superficial things, right?
Because you've taken them
through this process.
So that's one thing.
The other thing is don't ask for
immediate feedback, right?
Another thing that designers often do,
they get to the end of the presentation
and they get to, and
now I want your feedback, right?
And a train crash ensues at that point,
right?
So one person will say, well, I don't like
the green, another person says, well,
I really liked the green but
I wasn't sure about the typography.
And then they start discussing
which color would be best.
And you just lose control
of the whole situation, and
you're pushing pixels around and it just
turns into this major nightmare, right?
So, we don't wanna do that.
Equally, we don't want people to feel
pressured cuz a lot of the time it's like,
if I'm getting sign it off right now,
then I can move on, right?
But actually, just builds pressure again,
and makes everything become a bigger deal.
So there is a better way of handling it,
which is not to ask for
feedback then but
to say I will follow up, right?
I wanna give you time to digest the design
before you provide your feedback.
We're not gonna discuss it today,
because I don't wanna get into design by
committee, but I don't say that last bit.
Instead, I wanna give you
a chance to think it through,
to ask any questions you've got about
the design process and what we did.
And then I will follow up asking feedback
once you've had a bit of time to digest.